Archive this repository (#44)
alphagov/di-accounts-pds-hackathon: README.md

# Personal Data Store hackathon prototype

_This repository is archived_

> This prototype was created for a cross-public sector event looking at personal data stores (PDS) and how to use them to model relationships between users in September 2022.

Reviewer: Suggested rewording:

```suggestion
This prototype was created for a cross-public sector event in September 2022. The aim of the event was to look at personal data stores (PDSs) and how to use them to model relationships between users.
```

We wanted to explore an online vouching system for people to prove their identity, using personal data stores, linked data and verifiable credentials (VCs).

We thought it would be interesting to assume that any user could vouch for anyone else by removing the list of 'allowed professions'. This would potentially mean users could ask more people to vouch for them, or in turn vouch for more people, which would allow us to place them in a web of trust based on their relationships to other people.

We also thought a system like this would allow DI (as the identity issuer) to evaluate and 'weight' each vouch differently depending on the contents of the voucher's pod.

> For example, if the civil service issued a VC to civil servant's personal data stores, we could treat vouches from users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the civil service issued a VC to a civil servant's personal data store that confirmed they are a civil servant, we could treat vouches from users with those credentials as 'stronger' than those from users without them, because we have reasons to trust known civil servants more than unknown individuals. We ran out of time at the event to explore this topic in more detail, however.
```

> with those credentials as 'stronger' than those from users without them. We ran out of time at the event to explore this

Reviewer: Removes line breaks if you accept the above suggestion
```suggestion
```

> topic in more detail however.

Reviewer: Removes line breaks if you accept the above suggestion
```suggestion
topic in more detail however.
```

> Supporting material can be found on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1FJm-azglfwbVEepQJlq3jGTkMJIA_e2B)

Reviewer: Suggest more descriptive link text
```suggestion
Supporting material can be found on the [Google Drive folder for the public sector PDS event](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1FJm-azglfwbVEepQJlq3jGTkMJIA_e2B).
```

This prototype contains two journeys:

## Requesting a vouch

> A user starts in their GOV.UK Account and has a new card available to request a vouch. They go through the journey and at the

Reviewer: Suggest removing line break

> A user starts in their GOV.UK Account and has a new card available to request a vouch. They go through the journey and at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user starts in their GOV.UK account and has a new 'service card' (a way of accessing a government service) available which they can use to request a vouch. They go through the journey and at the
```

end, the app creates a new container in their PDS, writes a `VouchRequest` VC to it and adds permisssions to let the person

> they requested the vouch from write into that container.

Reviewer: Suggest removing line break

## Vouching for someone

The user being asked to vouch for someone starts the journey by getting a email which links them into the vouching service.

> They go through the journey and are asked a few questions about how they know the person they're vouching for - we thought

Reviewer: Suggest removing line break

these would be the basis of how we'd evaluate the 'strength' of their vouch.

> Once they've conpleted the journey, the app writes a VC into both users' PDS, using the permissions set up before to access the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the user providing the vouch has completed the journey, the app writes a VC into both users' PDS, using the permissions set up before to access the
```

> other person's. These VCs link to each other and would allow us to build a graph of users who have vouched for each other to

Reviewer: Suggest removing line break

> aid in things like fraud detection.

Reviewer: Suggest removing line break
